[THEME MUSIC]
>> Welcome to a special
series of Missing Links,
where your questions
get answered.
I'm your host, Tiffany
Bush, and I'm also
the head of the Member
Support Team here at Gaia.
And with me today is the star
of the show, Gregg Braden.
We're here to answer your
questions from the first season
of Missing Links.
Today, we'll look at climate
change and our genetic code.
Welcome, Gregg.
>> Tiffany, thank you so much.
I've been waiting my
whole life for this day.
>> Love it.
>> I'm so excited to be here.
And I'm really excited
that our members have
felt moved to ask the
questions based on what we've
shared in this first season.
The first season, I
think, laid the foundation
for new information based
on peer-reviewed science
that simply is not showing
up in mainstream media.
So the fact they're
asking the questions
tells me that what we shared
was meaningful to them.
And I couldn't ask for any more.
I'm excited to be here today.
Thank you.
>> Yes, thank you
so much for coming.
I love that you said not being
shared in mainstream education.
One member of my
team, Joe, actually
was like, this goes against
everything I've learned,
on the very first episode.
So happy to be here.
Happy to hear your feedback
and to share the questions
that we've gotten
from the members.
>> Sure.
>> The first one will
be from Brenda H.
She wants to know if you
can address the climate
engineering.
What's happening there?
And is it a contributor
to the acceleration
and extreme effects
around the world?
>> Climate engineering, that
term covers a lot of ground.
Often, when people ask
about climate engineering,
that's code for chemtrails.
It's something that
they talk about.
The fact is that we
have been engineering
the climate for hundreds
of years in the ways
that we knew how at the time.
I remember when I was a
kid back in 1950s and '60s,
something called cloud seeding
was happening in the Midwest,
I was born and raised
in northern Missouri,
to create rain in
times of drought,
where the planes would spray
some kind of an iodine pellets,
or sometimes dry ice.
Sometimes, they
even used propane.
In the upper atmosphere,
there's something
there for the humidity
to form a nucleus around
so that the cloud
droplets can fall.
So the idea itself,
and it also falls
under the category
of geoengineering,
are we geoengineering
our planet?
So all of these come together.
I'm just going to
lay them out right
now so we can tie into them.
The question, are we doing it?
Absolutely.
Have we been doing it?
Yes we have, for quite a while.
However, when I get
these questions,
my sense is that they're
more about the controversy
of chemtrails.
Are they happening, who's
doing it, what does it mean?
I'm a scientist, I'm
a degreed geologist,
and I follow the scientific
journals and the investigations
that are done by degreed
scientists who are
asking these very questions.
And what I've come
to understand,
in many cases very
different from what we'll
see on that YouTube video
or some of the e-mails
that are floating around,
climate change is a fact.
As a geologist, I
can tell you that.
It is not happening
for the reasons that
were being given
publicly, and we talked
about this in Missing Links.
There are some
schools of thought
that are now suggesting that we
can somehow change the climate
change, reverse the climate
change, through geoengineering.
Through spraying particulates
in the upper atmosphere.
And there is evidence
to support that.
The experiments have been done.
This has actually been done
in the past, where aerosols,
is what they're called,
in the high elevations
or high altitudes,
aluminum products.
Sometimes there are some
other chemical products,
but primarily aluminum.
The idea is to reflect as
much sunlight as possible
back away from the Earth.
Has that been done
experimentally?
The evidence
suggests that it has.
When we look up into the
sky from our front yard
every morning and we see a white
streak across our front yard,
does that mean that we're in
the middle of the chemtrail?
Absolutely not.
There are a number
of conditions where
conventional aircraft,
commercial aircraft,
different meteorological
conditions, they will
leave those trails.
And those trails will linger.
But we're being told that they
don't, but they will linger
and they will spread.
We've got evidence from this
early in the 20th century,
before any of this
was even happening.
Certain meteorologic
conditions, when
the humidity is a
certain kind of humidity
and the planes are flying
at a certain altitude,
they're using certain
kinds of fuels.
There are a lot of variables.
So what I would like to say
to our viewers is every vapor
trail that you see in the
sky, I don't see any evidence
to suggest that that is a
chemtrail that is poisoning us.
Have we done this in the past?
As I mentioned, we have.
And this comes up in some of the
other parts of Missing Links.
As a scientist,
I've been involved
in the industry, various
industries, the earth sciences
industry, the defense industry
during the Cold War years,
where amazing technologies
are developed.
And there's a question,
Tiffany, that always comes up.
And that's it's a tough
question that scientists
grapple with all the time.
And the question is simply this.
Because we can do something,
does that mean that we should?
>> Yeah.
>> Because we can genetically
modify an embryo before
it's born to make it perfect,
does that mean that we should?
Because we can manipulate
time and space,
does that mean we should?
Because we can
geoengineer our planet,
does that mean that we should?
And there are two schools
of thought with regard
to the answers.
I've been with scientists
that say to me, Gregg,
because we can, that gives
us the right to do it.
If we were never
meant to do this,
we never would have learned how.
That's one school of thought.
Another school of thought
says that while we
have the knowledge to unlock
the keys to creation and life
in the universe,
it's up to us, we
have to find our
own moral compass.
Where do we draw the
line, and how do we apply
what we now know to be true?
And this is why I think this
is a really important question.
Because I think everyone
knows our world is changing.
We are at what I call
the sweet spot right now,
where we have the technology
to do whatever we want.
And now, we must
bring the wisdom
that we have created
among ourselves.
Who are we, what is
the value of life, what
is the value of human life?
How much do we cherish
the life on the planet?
Where do we draw the line
between what we manipulate what
we don't?
We're at that point right now
where we must determine that.
Because the technology
is pushing us to be used.
So there are proposals,
very real proposals,
from scientific
agencies that say
we now have the ability to
geoengineer this planet,
to cool off the planet.
And I'd like to talk
at some point about why
I think it would be
a mistake to do that,
and that may be another
question you're going
to ask about climate change.
Because the climate
change is going
to cool the planet for
us, and I'll say that now.
So to wrap up,
and I know this is
a long answer to
a short question,
but we're tying some
concepts together here.
There has been some regulation
regarding the geoengineering.
And while pilot
programs have happened,
I don't see it happening
on a large scale right now,
me personally.
>> Thank you.
So I think you might have
touched on this a little bit,
this question from Maureen.
She wants to know
what is the best
way to enlighten the "people
in power" about global warming
as a naturally-occurring event.
But it sounds like
if we just keep
having these conversations,
how do we get them, too?
>> The question, how
do we enlighten people?
My experience is it's impossible
to enlighten someone that
doesn't want to be enlightened.
>> True
>> So what we're talking
about is scientific fact.
Peer-reviewed science, I'm going
to make a quick distinction
here.
There's a big distinction
between a scientist writing
his opinion on a piece of paper
and posting it on the Internet,
and the scientist creating
a paper circulating
among university
and peers, looking
for places where the
theory doesn't hold up,
and then publishing that.
And what I'm sharing
here as a scientist,
I'm a degreed geologist,
I'm sharing this
from a perspective of a
peer-reviewed science,
there are many
people that simply
don't want to be enlightened.
Those that want to
know already know.
This is no secret.
The things that we've
shared are no secret.
They're in the
peer-reviewed science.
They're not in the
popular media, however.
And this is what I
was saying earlier.
There's a story, there's a
scientific story about us,
who we are in our
relationship to the earth,
and there's a battle right now.
A struggle that is
going on to preserve
a story that's now obsolete.
So the first season
of Missing Links,
and again, this isn't about
making anything right or wrong,
or good or bad.
My sole purpose in sharing
this is what I just mentioned.
We are at this precious moment
in the history of our planet
when the choices that we make
now, because of the technology
we've developed,
we have the ability
to forever change the balance
of energy and life and climate
forever.
We can do that.
So we must make choices.
What do we value, where
do we put our priorities?
And make those choices now.
And that's the purpose,
that's the reason, that we
created this Missing Links.
To share the new
discoveries that
are circulating in these
very technical journals
among small groups of people.
But the average person
watching CNN or BBC World,
they're not going
to see these things.
But it based on
peer-reviewed science.
So the people in
power, many of them,
there are many agendas that
help people to move into power.
And I'm not saying the
right, wrong, good, or bad.
And I'm not trying to make
anyone right, wrong, good,
or bad.
My question is this.
How can we become resilient
to a time of extremes
when our planet is
changing, unless we
are honest with ourselves
about that change?
Honest, truthful, and factual.
And so that's all I'm
inviting people to do
is, let's embrace the deepest
truths of our existence.
What Mother Earth is showing
us through her records,
the science, and
let's apply this
in a healthy way in our lives.
>> I like that.
I like what you said
about making choices,
and that leads us into
Justin B's question.
He says, "If climate change
is a natural occurrence,
does our human footprint on this
planet still have an effect?"
Maybe you can talk about some
of the choices we can make.
>> Yeah, climate change.
It's a huge topic, and we
could do this whole program
on climate change.
We devoted, I believe,
one episode, and probably
a little bit of another
episode of Missing Links.
We could have done the whole
series on climate change.
So let me just
encapsulate quickly.
As a geologist and
earth scientist,
what the data strongly
suggests and what
many scientists are embracing is
that climate change is a fact.
I think we all know that.
It is being driven by
Earth's location in space,
Earth's locations to the sun.
Three parameters, the tilt,
the angle, and the wobble.
The precession of
the equinoxes, what's
called the orbit of the
Earth around the Sun,
sometimes it's further,
sometimes it's closer.
And it's the tilt
angle and the obliquity
is what we're talking about.
Scientists know this.
This isn't a secret.
If we were not on
this planet, Earth
would still be going
through climate change.
But here's the key.
If you look at the
records of the past,
and I prefer Mother Earth's
own records from the ice cores,
rather than the interpretation
from a corporation
or from a scientist who's
beholden to someone who
is funding their research, what
Mother Earth's records show
us is that we are, in fact,
undergoing climate change.
And the climate
has warmed briefly.
And not that much, compared
to other times in the past.
It's about a third
as warm now is
what it was during a time called
the medieval warming period,
around 800, right around
in that period of time.
But what's important is,
after the warming happens,
the warming is
intense, it's brief.
And it's what comes next
that can be the problem.
And that is the cooling.
There's an abrupt cooling
that always comes afterwards
So, Tiffany, here's where
it gets really interesting.
What the Earth's climate records
show is the carbon dioxide
levels, when they
increase, that's
when the cooling happens.
The higher the CO2 levels, the
cooler the temperatures get.
Not the warming that
we see right now.
So Earth has had cooling
cycles in the past
based on the CO2 that was
available from natural sources.
We have now kicked
more carbon dioxide
into the atmosphere of our
planet in the last century
than we've ever had in the past.
If the little bit
of CO2 from the past
caused the cooling that
we're seeing in the ice cores
from Antarctica, that we
showed in Missing Links,
there's a lot of CO2
that we now have.
What does that mean?
And the implications are
that the cooling, I'm
not saying an ice age, but
we may see a little bit more
cooling that we have,
which is only a problem
if we're not prepared for it.
So if we can be
honest with ourselves
and embrace what these
changes really mean,
I think they're not
a problem at all.
Because we are simply
going through a cycle.
But the thinking in
the past has always
been that climate is static.
And when something
begins to change,
we either think
something's wrong,
or we work to try to
force the climate back
to where it used to be.
This ties into the
previous question.
This is why from my opinion,
my personal opinion,
is that it's a mistake
to try to geoengineer
to put that stuff
in the atmosphere
and make the earth cooler.
Because Earth, Mother
Nature, Mother Earth
is working on her
rhythm in a cycle that's
more than 20 years or 30 years.
And the intricacies,
the interrelated nature
of these parameters, we're
just beginning to understand.
So to try to change
them before we fully
understand them, in my
opinion, is irresponsible.
So are they happening?
Yes, and this is where I think
we are in this right now.
Does that make sense
if I say it that way?
Did I cover all--
>> Yes, absolutely.
I was wondering,
when you said that we
do have the means to change the
climate back to how it was when
you said "initially,"
I was wondering
if that was beneficial or not.
And I'm glad you answered that.
>> Yeah, I don't think so.
And what's interesting is, when
you look at the years records,
the climate change that
we're undergoing now
is so minuscule compared to
what it's been in the past.
Are we warming?
Yeah.
We're not nearly as warm
as we've been in the past.
And the warming that
we've seen, even--
scientists, they tend to look
at things in a shorter scale.
We're comparing
temperatures today
to where they were
20, 25, 30 years ago.
Mother Nature doesn't
work on those scales.
She's working on
centuries and millennia.
So if you look at a
snapshot, you say, my God.
Something's wrong.
When you look at the big picture
and you gain that perspective,
you say, my God.
We're right in the rhythm with
where we've been in the past.
I'll put it this way.
If we were not having
some warming now,
I would be concerned.
Because I would say
what's different now
from when we reached
this point in the past?
Why isn't Earth?
These are cycles within
cycles, 100,000-year cycles,
41,000-year cycles,
25,000-, 5,000-year cycles.
So if we have done
nothing, I think
we would see the reversal
of this climate change.
I got to be really
clear on this.
We definitely need to go green.
We definitely need to
stop burning fossil fuels.
We have the technology to
give us the ability to-- we've
had that technology for 60 years
to stop burning fossil fuels.
We need to stop kicking these
pollutants into the air.
Norwegian scientists have
taken this a step further,
and we're all looking
at climate change.
And what they're telling us,
they've got a beautiful pie
chart, is there are eight
fundamental parameters that
must be in place
to preserve what
is called the safe zone for
life to inhabit planet Earth.
Climate change is only one
of those eight parameters.
And each parameter, we get
to see how far we have,
or if we have, come
to the boundary,
if we have crossed the boundary.
Climate change, we're just
really close to the boundary.
It's as bad as people
are making it sound.
Other parameters,
we are over 2/3.
We've crossed that
boundary and we keep going.
One of those is the
acidification of the oceans,
making the oceans acid.
One of those is the
loss of biodiversity.
We're losing species
on this planet
faster than we've ever seen.
We've been through five mass
extinctions in the past.
Biologists are
telling us right now
we are in the midst of
the sixth mass extinction.
And the question is, will
humans be a part of that?
I am an optimist.
I think we're going to learn
about this delicate, precious
balance, and learn to cherish
and preserve what we have.
But, Tiffany, this is the way
we seem to learn as humans.
By experiencing what
we don't want first,
and then saying
we don't want it,
rather than saying this is
the way we choose to live
and putting everything in
place to move that way.
Does that make sense?
>> It does.
>> It's a really
interesting way to learn.
So we have now learned that we
do love and cherish our planet.
And it's like a ship on
the ocean making a turn
to go back to port.
They don't turn on a dime.
Make a long, slow
turn, we need to turn
this ship a little faster.
Because we are destroying those
other eight parameters so very
quickly.
And I talk about this in the
book Resilience from the Heart,
we talk about this.
The book Deep Truth, I
talk about this as well.
Because climate
change is important,
and it is one of other factors.
>> Let's talk a little bit
more about the cooling effects
on the Earth.
Nadine wants to know
is global warming
and cooling followed
by a mass extinction?
Like is it always followed by--
>> A good question.
Not necessarily.
It doesn't have to.
And this is why we
share this information.
By being honest,
truthful, and factual,
it takes a lot of the fear
out of what's happening.
Mother Earth and Nature
are based in cycles,
in rhythms, as our
bodies and our lives are.
Science is only 300
years old, and has
been reluctant to
embrace those rhythms
and cycles in the modern world,
the way many of our ancestors
and the indigenous
traditions have.
We're going through a
cycle, a natural rhythm,
a natural cycle.
We've been through a warming.
What the evidence
suggests is the Earth
has not warmed significantly
for at least the last decade,
possibly longer.
Probably moving into
a cooling cycle.
A lot of that is based on
the action from the Sun.
As the Sun becomes quiet, as
the magnetic storms on the Sun
begin to dissipate, which
is what has happened,
Earth typically becomes
cooler during that time.
Not an ice age, but cooler.
And this is important,
because even a little cooling
in the climate globally
changes the weather locally.
Changes when it rains,
when the seasons come,
when the monsoons come.
That changes when we grow our
food, where we grow our food,
how we grow our food.
And that changes how people
work and live together.
So the influence is huge.
It's only a problem if
we're not prepared for it.
And we're not prepared only if
we're not honest with ourselves
about what's happening.
Truthful, honest,
factual interpretation
of what the Earth's history
is showing us, I think,
is the key to us navigating
through this pivotal moment
in climate change.
>> Interesting.
Let's shift gears a little
bit and talk about-- you
mentioned the Sun.
I want to talk about the Earth
and its effects on our DNA.
So Nicole wants to
know, do you think
our DNA is changing, and/or the
"junk DNA" that you mentioned,
is it being activated right now
during this time of extra light
and energy reaching
our planet today?
>> Sure.
That's a good question.
I'm going to approach
this from a little bit
different perspective.
And it's actually not
shifting gears that much,
because we're part of the
natural system that we're
talking about.
So we're still talking
about Earth and cycles.
There's a new science that's
evolved within the last 15
years or so.
It's called epigenetics.
Epigenetics is the
science that says
to us that our genetic
makeup is not a fixed code.
We come into this world as
babies with enough of our code
enabled to get us started
in life in a healthy way.
What changes the code,
this is important,
is our perceptions
of our environment.
Or there could be physical
things in the environment.
Chemicals, high tension
power lines, things
like that, we all know
those have an effect.
But the biggest effect is
our perception of our world.
So when people ask me, is
the Sun changing our DNA,
it's not that the
light of the sun
is going to kick on some
DNA if we go to the beach.
But as we just mentioned
in the previous question,
our relationship to the
Sun, the magnetic fields
of the Sun the ebb and flow,
the magnetic fields of the Earth
ebb and flow in
response to that.
And here's where it
gets really interesting,
Tiffany, is that we are
magnetic fields as well.
Our hearts are based
in magnetic fields.
We are polar beings.
We have a north and a
south pole in our bodies.
The science, so this
isn't speculation,
it's not New Age wishful
thinking, this is science,
is now showing us that humans
are less aggressive and more
willing to cooperate with the
magnetic fields of the earth
are stronger.
So what that says,
or conversely,
more aggressive, less
willing to cooperate,
when war and social
hardship happens is when
the magnetic fields are weaker.
So now what we're saying
to answer this question,
it's not the light of the Sun
directly changing the DNA.
The magnetic fields of
the Sun go through cycles,
influencing magnetic fields
of the Earth, the human heart,
the human psyche.
As we perceive those changes,
we become less aggressive
or more aggressive.
And our feelings are
the epigenetic factors
that change our own DNA.
So are we changing our DNA?
We can do it all the time.
And there's a
multipart question.
What's called been
called junk DNA,
we now know Mother Nature
didn't give us any junk.
Not in the cells.
It's not junk DNA.
It simply is DNA whose
function has only recently
been recognized.
What we used to call the junk
DNA is giving instructions
to the other DNA in
terms of the functions
they perform in our bodies.
We need that DNA.
Scientists, for years, when
they pull the DNA of the cell,
they've been throwing
this stuff out.
Oh, we don't need this.
They're just after what
was in the nucleus.
But there are other
forms of DNA in the cell.
It's not junk.
It's sending instructions
to our cell body.
So what we can say is
that, as the Sun goes
through these rhythms that
are triggering climate change,
it is also triggering, can
trigger, genetic changes
in our body.
But the key is, it's
how we perceive,
how we perceive the changes.
Or whether we feel that we
are less aggressive or more
aggressive.
And I'm emphasizing this
because it goes to the point
that we are empowered
through our perceptions
to literally change
our biology, to change
our physical being to adapt
to the world as it changes.
We're not victims stuck,
fixed, and at the mercy
of an environment
changing around us.
We have the ability
to change and adapt
so that we can thrive,
not just survive,
but thrive in that environment.
It's a long answer
to a short question
>> That is.
And it goes into
Sarah's question, too.
She says, "How can
we best prepare
for any spontaneous genetic
changes caused by solar flare?"
I would love to
address that spot.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of
information on the Internet
going around about a big solar
flare that's going to affect
the Earth in a lot
of different ways.
Is it possible?
It is possible.
Anything is possible.
Have we had them in the past?
Yes, we have.
The 1850s was the
last huge solar flare.
We didn't have the
technology then that we have.
We didn't have cell phone
towers and power grids the way
we have now.
What we did have, it destroyed.
The telegraph lines that were
there acted as little antenna.
When that solar flare happened,
it burned everything out.
So can it happen?
Yes.
Is there evidence that
we are in for one now?
Personally, I know of
no scientific evidence
that suggests that.
Now, I don't know that
it can even be predicted.
And especially now, because the
Sun has become so very quiet
and is influencing
the planet the way
it is in terms of
climate, the cooling
suggests that if we're
going to have a flare,
it's not going to
be any anytime soon.
So that was one part
of the question.
Then there was another part.
>> She just wanted to know how
we can best prepare for it.
>> The best way, and I've talked
about this in Missing Links
toward the end of the
program, new discoveries made
in the early 1990s now tell us
that our heart and our brain,
two separate organs, are
connected through a neural
network that allows those two
organs to as is one potent
mechanism.
When we harmonize the
heart and the brain,
we allow ourselves to harmonize
with our natural environment.
And it all comes
down to vibration.
Every moment of
every day, there's
a conversation between
our heart and our brain.
That conversation
can be measured
as an electrical signal.
It's a very low signal.
And when it's optimized,
it's 0.1 hertz.
It's a tenth of a hertz.
Can't even hear that.
This is the
frequency that whales
communicate with in the ocean.
It's the frequency that
military submarines use.
That's why it's a
problem for the whales.
When we can feel the feelings
and adjust our breathing
in a way that allows a 0.1
hertz signal between the heart
and the brain, we are
harmonizing our body
with our natural environment.
And rather than something that
we do every once in a while,
it's a way of being.
And our ancestors knew this.
They said this is
a way of living,
rather than an
activity that we do.
So for me personally, I
don't have a meditation
per se that I do every day.
Life is the meditation and a
mindfulness of other people,
my environment.
That is part of my practice.
And when I need to harmonize
my heart and my brain,
I do exactly what I
shared in Missing Links.
It's a breath, and an emotion,
a feeling-based process
that optimizes that
signal between the heart
and the brain.
So to answer the
question, I think
this is the best
thing we can do.
Because not only
is it good for us.
It's good for us and our
relationship to the environment
>> Thank you.
That's definitely
a call to meditate.
>> Does that make sense?
>> It does.
To meditate, to
show up and just be
aware of how we walk and
move in the environment,
and with each other.
>> Can I say something
else about that?
>> Yes
>> I spent a lot of time with
indigenous people in different
cultures.
Monks, nuns, abbots in
Tibet, Bolivia, Peru.
Indigenous peoples in
kivas and in prayer.
As different as they
are from one another,
one of the common threads
is that all of them,
in their own way, have
a way to harmonize
the heart and the brain.
So they learned this
a long time ago.
And I think rather than
thinking of it as something
we do on occasion to help
us at a certain time,
in health or immune
system or something
like that, if we can develop
a practice where this becomes
a way of being, where we're in
that state more often than not.
And I think it's our
natural state of being.
I think it's natural for
us to be in the states
when our intuition is tuned
to its highest degree, when
we learn the best,
super learning happens.
When we have direct access
to our subconscious, when
our immune system
at its strongest.
Rather than being an
extraordinary way of living,
I think it's an ordinary way
of living that we're only
now beginning to understand.
>> Thank you.
I wonder if we can take
the time for one more
question from Naomi Simmons.
She says, you mentioned
the code in our DNA
where you found a
message from our creator.
Have you also looked
into DNA of other species
and found this code?
>> Good question.
>> Is this message from beings
from our planet that may have
dabbled with DNA here?
>> So I asked the same question
that Naomi has just asked.
And so the bottom line is this.
The code that I found,
it took me 20 years
to find that code in
the DNA of humans.
It is in all carbon-based DNA.
That means that code is
fundamental in every form
of life that we know today
that is based in carbon.
So from a blade of grass to a
hamster to a goldfish, to a dog
to a cat to an ape,
when we interact
with life in another world,
if their DNA is carbon-based,
it will have the same message.
How did that message get there?
That's a topic for
another conversation
that I would love
to share with you.
>> Thank you so much, Gregg.
>> Thank you, Tiffany.
I've enjoyed it
tremendously today.
Thank you so much.
>> That's all we have for today.
I'm your host, Tiffany.
In the next episode,
we'll answer
your insightful questions
on heart-brain connection.
[THEME MUSIC]